# InformationWanted

STATEMENT OF USE:

This git repository is the public repository for the Last Seen: Finding 
Family After Slavery project (https://informationwanted.org). It 
contains all the scanned images and metadata created for the project as 
a secondary point of acquisition. Users are instead encouraged to use 
the InformationWanted open API to harvest the metadata, located at 
https://informationwanted.org/api/resources

Because the metadata is stored in Omeka/Scripto, a mysql dump of the 
pertinant Omeka tables (specifically, omek_elements, omek_element_sets 
and omek_element_texts) is included in this repository for those who 
cannot use the API but still want to explore the metadata.

All original TIFF scans are included in the "files" section of the 
repository, song with the subsequent jpeg converstions and thumbnails.

IMAGE PRODUCTION:

Last Seen uses ST Imaging's Viewscan IV Microfilm Scanner with 14MP USB 
3.0 Camera and a high resolution 18 megapixel image sensor to produce 
scans at 800 dpi. This scanner was acquired in 2018 through support from 
the Villanova University College of Arts and Sciences and replaced the 
Canon Microfilm Scanner 400 located at the University library staff used 
in year one. Each scan is saved as an uncompressed TIFF, which averages 
about 40KB per image. These high-resolution digital master files serve 
as the archival electronic files for the project and are stored on 
Dropbox.

ACCESS POLICY:

All Last Seen data is Open Access, using open APIs to allow the public 
access to all project metadata. As well, no project data (images, 
metadata, et al) is private, allowing Last Seen's Github repository to 
be open to the public as well. On the software side, the technology used 
to host this project (Omeka, Scripto, Wikimedia, et al) are all Open 
Source packages, allowing for open community contribution to these 
platforms. This Open philosophy (Open Source plus Open Access) is 
designed to maximize the impact of the project in the scholarly 
community and provide maximum return to the digital scholarship and 
technology communities.
